docs/server/UnityCatalogServer.md, before:

---
title: UnityCatalogServer
---

# UnityCatalogServer Utility

`UnityCatalogServer` is a command-line utility to start a Unity Catalog server at the given [port](#port) (default: `8080`) or the closest one open.

```console
./bin/start-uc-server [port]
```

`UnityCatalogServer` starts Armeria documentation service at <http://localhost:8081/docs/> and the [Unity Catalog API services](#addServices).

## Creating Instance

`UnityCatalogServer` takes the following to be created:

* <span id="port"> Port (default: `8080`)

While being created, `UnityCatalogServer` builds the [Server](#server):

1. Handle HTTP requests at the given [port](#port)
1. Bind the Armeria documentation service ([Armeria]({{ armeria.javadoc }}/com/linecorp/armeria/server/docs/DocService.html)) under `/docs` URL
1. [Register the API services](#addServices)

`UnityCatalogServer` is created when:

* `UnityCatalogServer` command-line utility is [started](#main)

### Server

`UnityCatalogServer` creates a `Server` ([Armeria]({{ armeria.javadoc }}/com/linecorp/armeria/server/Server.html)) when [created](#creating-instance).

## Registering API Services { #addServices }

```java
void addServices(
  ServerBuilder sb)
```

`addServices` creates and registers Unity Catalog API services at the `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/` base path.

URL | Service
-|-
 `/` | Returns `Hello, Unity Catalog!` message
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/` |  [TableService](TableService.md)
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/catalogs` | [CatalogService](CatalogService.md)
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/functions` | [FunctionService](FunctionService.md)
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/iceberg` | [IcebergRestCatalogService](IcebergRestCatalogService.md)
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/schemas` | [SchemaService](SchemaService.md)
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/temporary-table-credentials` | [TemporaryTableCredentialsService](TemporaryTableCredentialsService.md)
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/temporary-volume-credentials` | [TemporaryVolumeCredentialsService](TemporaryVolumeCredentialsService.md)
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/volumes` | [VolumeService](VolumeService.md)

## Launching UnityCatalogServer { #main }

```java
void main(
  String[] args)
```

`main` starts probing for the available port from `8081` or the first argument specified on command line.

`main` [creates a UnityCatalogServer](#creating-instance).

`main` requests the `UnityCatalogServer` to [print out the welcome ASCII art message](#printArt).

`main` requests the `UnityCatalogServer` to [start](#start).

`main`...FIXME

Commit message:

The three of UC: Reference Server, Client API and Example CLI

docs/server/UnityCatalogServer.md, after:

---
title: UnityCatalogServer
---

# UnityCatalogServer Reference Server

`UnityCatalogServer` can be used as a command-line utility to start a Unity Catalog Reference Server at the given [port](#port) (default: `8080`) or the closest one open.

```console
./bin/start-uc-server [port]
```

`UnityCatalogServer` starts Armeria documentation service at <http://localhost:8081/docs/> and the [Unity Catalog API services](#addServices).

## Creating Instance

`UnityCatalogServer` takes the following to be created:

* <span id="port"> Port (default: `8080`)

While being created, `UnityCatalogServer` builds the [Server](#server):

1. Handle HTTP requests at the given [port](#port)
1. Bind the Armeria documentation service ([Armeria]({{ armeria.javadoc }}/com/linecorp/armeria/server/docs/DocService.html)) under `/docs` URL
1. [Register the API services](#addServices)

`UnityCatalogServer` is created when:

* `UnityCatalogServer` command-line utility is [started](#main)

### Server

`UnityCatalogServer` creates a `Server` ([Armeria]({{ armeria.javadoc }}/com/linecorp/armeria/server/Server.html)) when [created](#creating-instance).

## Registering API Services { #addServices }

```java
void addServices(
  ServerBuilder sb)
```

`addServices` creates and registers Unity Catalog API services at the `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/` base path.

URL | Service
-|-
 `/` | Returns `Hello, Unity Catalog!` message
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/` |  [TableService](TableService.md)
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/catalogs` | [CatalogService](CatalogService.md)
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/functions` | [FunctionService](FunctionService.md)
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/iceberg` | [IcebergRestCatalogService](IcebergRestCatalogService.md)
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/schemas` | [SchemaService](SchemaService.md)
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/temporary-table-credentials` | [TemporaryTableCredentialsService](TemporaryTableCredentialsService.md)
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/temporary-volume-credentials` | [TemporaryVolumeCredentialsService](TemporaryVolumeCredentialsService.md)
 `/api/2.1/unity-catalog/volumes` | [VolumeService](VolumeService.md)

## Launching UnityCatalogServer { #main }

```java
void main(
  String[] args)
```

`main` starts probing for the available port from `8081` or the first argument specified on command line.

`main` [creates a UnityCatalogServer](#creating-instance).

`main` requests the `UnityCatalogServer` to [print out the welcome ASCII art message](#printArt).

`main` requests the `UnityCatalogServer` to [start](#start).

`main`...FIXME
